---
title: Data Sources
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-07-13T13:36:31.458Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-07-13T13:36:31.458Z
---

# Data Sources
## Introduction

A Data Source in AXII is a static, immutable piece of data that can be interpreted as a sequence of bytes. These bytes can represent a variety of data types, such as structured text files, images, videos, etc. Each Data Source is internally linked to an inventory object, which is stored in one or more Stores. An example of a Data Source is a CSV file containing the Iris dataset. It's important to note that a database is not considered a Data Source, as it is not immutable. However, data can be fetched from a database to create a Data Source.

## Deep Dive

### Creation

There are several ways to create Data Sources in AXII:

1. **Upload directly**: Data Sources can be uploaded directly to AXII. This method is typically intended for smaller objects that can be uploaded through HTTP in a reasonable time.
2. **Link to existing object**: Data Sources can be linked to an existing object in Object Storage Store. This is the fastest way to bring existing data to AXII.
3. **Create from Artifact**: Data Sources can be created from an Artifact generated by a Task. This method can be used to automate the process of creating DataSources, e.g., on a time-dependent basis. A typical use case would be to set up a Recurring Experiment with a data pipeline that fetches and processes some data, eventually outputting a clean DataSource that is ready to be consumed by other users.

### Internals

A DataSource is linked to an Object in the Inventory. Each Object is located in one or more Stores. The Inventory takes care of tasks such as deduplicating the data.

### DataSource in a Workflow

A Node with a DataSource in a workflow doesn't have any inputs, only an output. The output can be connected to a Task Node's input. The Task Node's input DataKind determines how the DataSource should be consumed. There are two main types of DataKinds:

1. **FS kinds**: These Data Sources are mounted directly in the container, and the Task can consume them like an ordinary file system file or directory. For example, in Python, you can use the `open` function to access the data.
2. **Object Storage kinds**: These Data Sources are not mounted in the container. Instead, the handle (URI) is passed to the Task, and it's the Task's responsibility to consume it appropriately. The details of this process depend on the Object Storage system and the Task's runtime. For example, Python's Pandas library and Apache Spark can read S3 objects natively.

By understanding the different ways to create, manage, and use Data Sources within AXII, users can efficiently leverage the platform's capabilities to develop and execute AI workflows. This flexibility allows AI experts to focus on their work while AXII handles the underlying infrastructure and resource management.